away from that report to take you live
to pulia in the G7 Summit in southern
Italy as you can see Joe Biden US
President Vladimir zi president of
Ukraine taking the podium there they are
poised to sign a deal intended to commit
the US to a decade of military support
and they are as you can see before they
speak signing that agreement as I said A
Move That Could pressure According to
some rival Donald Trump if he takes the
White House the deal wouldn't have the
strength of a treaty but we understand
would signal a commitment it comes off
the back of course of another deal
emerging from the G7 meetings an
agreement to provide Ukraine with a $50
billion loan amid its territorial Los
losses to Russian forces that money
coming from interest on $300 million in
seized Russian assets much of it in
European Banks let's listen in to the US
president speaking first last year at
the NATO Summit
Lithuania United States brought together
every member of the G7 to sign a joint
Declaration of support for
Ukraine 25 additional countries joined
us quickly each agreed to forge the
long-term bilateral commitments with
Ukraine president zalinsky and I have
just now signed that agreement between
the United States and Ukraine our goal
is to strengthen Ukraine's credible
defense and deterrence capabilities for
the long term a lasting peace for
Ukraine
must be underwritten by Ukraine's own
ability to defend itself now and to
deter future aggression anytime in in
the future it's going to help ensure
Ukraine can do both not by sending
American troops to fight in Ukraine but
by providing weapons and ammunition
expanding intelligence sharing
continuing to train Brave Ukrainian
troops at bases in Europe and the United
States enhancing interoperability
between our militaries and line with
NATO's standards investing in Ukraine's
defense industrial base so in time in
time they can supply their own weapons
and Munitions working with Ukraine's
Partners to build a future force that is
strong sustainable and resilient and
supporting Ukraine's economic recovery
as well as his energy recovery after
Russia's repeatedly targeted Ukraine's
energy grid with massive attacks and the
feudal attempt to break the will of the
Ukrainian people all these lines of
efforts and others are laid out in this
agreement Additionally the G7 achieved a
significant outcome this week on the
matter of Russia's frozen assets in
Europe and other places outside of
outside of Russia back in 2022 two days
after Russia's Invasion members of the
G7 and the European Union worked
together to freeze $280 billion in
Russian Central Bank funds outside of
Russia I'm very very pleased to share
that this week this week the G7 signed a
plan to finalize and unlock $50 billion
from the proceeds of those frozen assets
to put that money to work for Ukraine
another reminder to Putin we're not
backing down in fact we're standing
together against this illegal aggression
the agreement that President Linsky and
I just signed also lays out our shared
vision for a just peace a peace rooted
in the UN Charter and the principles of
sovereign and territorial Integrity a
peace with a broad base of support
around the world that holds Russia
accountable for the damage that is done
in this war we will see this Vision
strongly affirmed at the historic peace
conference happening in Switzerland this
weekend with vice president Harris will
represent the United States finally this
agreement accelerates Ukraine's
integration into the European Atlantic
transatlantic communities it includes
major commitments from Ukraine to impact
excuse me to implement Democratic
economic and security reforms in line
with the European Union's accession goal
and NATO's programs of Reform while we
take this step the United States is also
intensifying pressure on Russia
yesterday the US Treasury Department
made clear any Bank anywhere in the
world that deals with sanctioned Russian
Banks companies or individuals risk
being sanctions themselves and we
announced roughly 300 new sanctions on
individuals and companies that are
helping Russia with war up they include
key parts of Russia's financial
sector I wait till it goes
[Music]
over individual and entities that Supply
Russia with item critical to its defense
production like
microecon like micro elonics machine
tools and IND materials we also we also
sanction more Russian Future Energy
projects that Russia's natural gas oil
projects that are under construction and
are not yet fully operated Putin is
counting on revenues from these projects
our sanctions will disrupt those plans
Plus at the G7 we discussed our shared
concern about countries like China where
supplying Russia with materials they
need for their War Machine and we agreed
to taking Collective action to push back
against that activity let me close with
this we've taken three major steps at
the G7 that collectively show Putin we
cannot he cannot wait us out he cannot
divide us and we'll be with Ukraine
until they Prevail in this war first is
the bilateral security agreement just
signed second historic agreement to
provide $50 billion in value from
Russian Sovereign assets to Ukraine and
third an agreement to ensure our
sanctions efforts disrupt third
countries that that are supplying
Russia's War efforts that will increase
pressure on the Russian economy
collectively this is a powerful set of
actions and will create a stronger
foundation for Ukraine success two and a
half years ago Putin Unleashed a brutal
war on Ukraine and been a horrifying a
deal for the Ukrainian people are so
brave and incredible it also been a test
for the world would we stand with
Ukraine would we stand for sovereignty
freedom and against tyranny the United
States the G7 and countries around the
world world have consistently answered
the question by saying yes we will we
will say it again Yes again and again
and again we're going to stand with
Ukraine and thank you and I now yield to
my friend from Ukraine
president thank you so much Mr President
Biden dear president dear journalists
dear ukrainians dear
Americans and thank you so much thanks
Italy and Georgia to for an
invitation uh uh dear friends today is a
truly historic day and we have signed
the strongest agreement between
Ukraine and us since our
independence and this is an agreement on
security and thus on the protection of
human
life this is an agreement on
coroporation and thus on how our Nations
will become stronger this is an
agreement on steps to guarantee
sustainable peace and therefore it
benefits everyone in the world because
the Russian war against Ukraine is a
real real Global threat I thank you very
much Mr President for your
leadership which is reflected in
particular in this agreement and in your
years of support for Ukraine I think our
teams both teams thanks very much for
making sure that the details of the
agreement are really good and of course
I want to thank every every Ukrainian
Soldier all our people whose courage
made this level of alliance between
Ukraine and the United States possible
and I am proud of our people and what
Ukraine can do and I'm very grateful to
all Americans to everyone in America who
strengthens American
leadership so under the points of the
agreement first the agreement contains a
very detailed legally binding part and
this means The credibility of America's
support for our Ukrainian Independence
secondly security commitments from the
United States are based among other
things on the sustainability of of
security and defense support not only
for the duration of this war but also
also for the period of Peace after the
war and we will definitely ensure peace
third it clearly states that America
supports Ukraine's efforts to win this
war fourth the agreement has good
provisions on weapons for our defense
where specifically on the Patriot
systems were specifically on the supply
of fighter squadrons to Ukraine that's
right plural squadrons including but not
limited to f16s we have worked for a
long time for these the agreement is
also very specific about the supply of
the necessary weapons dur and production
and strengthening of the defense
industries of our countries through our
cooperation and this is something that
will not only provide security but also
new good jobs for ukrainians and
Americans the agreement also outlines
what is needed in terms of intelligence
information the agreement contains key
aspects of protecting the lives of our
people fifth it is very important that
the agreement also addresses the issue
of Russia's just responsibility for this
war and its attempts to destroy
ukrainians America supports both Fair
compensation for the damage caused by
Russian strikes and working out ways to
ensure that Frozen Russian assets are
used to protect and rebuild Ukraine the
agreement also includes sanctions and
Export
controls that will make Russia fa the
pain for what it is doing again the
freedom of peoples and two more things
I'm grateful that the philosophy of our
security agreement is in fact the
philosophy of the alliance and that is
why the issue of nat is covered through
the text of the agreement it states that
America supports Ukraine's future future
membership in NATO and recognizes that
our security agreement is a bridge to
Ukraine's me membership in NATO it is
very important for all ukrainians and
for all Europeans to know that there
will be no security deficit in Europe
which tempts the agressor to war and
makes the future uncertain now we are
clearly defining everything we will
cooperate cooperate for the sake of
Victory make peace guarantees effective
and provide the necessary security for
our people and thank you Mr President
for your leadership in the g7's decision
on 50 billion loan for Ukraine it's
vital step forward and providing
sustainable support for Ukraine in
winning this war
Russian IM mobilis assets should be used
for defending lives of Ukraine from
Russian Terror and for repaying the
damage aggressor caus to Ukraine it's
fear and absolutely right Mr President
thank you your team I would also like to
thank the United States Congress for
their support both parties both Chambers
thank you and thanks to every American
Heart that does not betray freedom and
supports us Slava Ukraine
now what we'll do is we going to take uh
two questions from American reporters
and two question each from two American
reporters and a question each from two
Ukrainian suppor reporters the first
first person I'm to call on is Colleen
long and the Associated
Press thank you thanks Mr President um
about two weeks ago you changed course
to allow Ukraine to fire Us weapons into
Russia given the reported successes
would you consider further expanding the
parameters on us weapons into Russia
even despite your concerns about
escalation and on the news from home um
you're going through something that so
many American families go through uh the
intersection of addiction in the
criminal justice system um but you're
not like most families was your son able
to get a fair trial do you believe the
justice department operated
independently of politics um and for
president let me answer your question
and you ask his question
okay with regard to the first
question it is clear that the
near abroad meaning just across the the
line of the the border with Russia and
Ukraine that it makes a lot of sense for
Ukraine to be able to take out or combat
what is coming across that border in
terms of long long range weapons longer
range weapons into the interior of
Russia we have not changed our position
on that sort with regard to the question
regarding the family I'm extremely proud
of my son Hunter he has overcome an
addiction he is he's one of the
brightest most decent men I know and I
am satisfied that I'm not going to do
anything I said I said I abide by the
jury decision I will do that and I will
not pardon
him um president
zinski uh a number of leaders here in
Italy including President Biden are
facing upcoming election challenges how
will the security agreement signed
tonight and the other Promises of
support continue if they are not an
office and what's your contingency plan
if they
don't if I can k in Ukrainian language
yes thank you so much
uh the people of of the Nations first
and foremost to the United States to the
countries in Europe and other on other
continents who have supported us since
the very beginning of of the beginning
of this absolutely unjust war of Russia
against the people of Ukraine that and
that is it they they've been killing
people that homes and territory all that
is very important it is part of but
first and foremost we're speaking about
people and lives of people you
understand
and this war was unjust since the very
beginning the war of this
evil whose name is Putin the war against
the people of Ukraine and he has killed
so many people to to say that it is not
him it there was a military man who did
it the last one is just an instrument of
his and he's playing this in strument
and therefore it is important for us
that since the very beginning we were
supported by people by Nations because
they understood that we share common
values we simply want to live and the
people understood they imagined what
will happen if such evil attacks them
and therefore we were supported by
people and I thank President Biden and
other leaders who since the very
beginning of the invasion Putin's
Invasion started to support us they
based on their values they they
were based on the
voice of of their people and it is
impossible without people and I am sure
that this
nation chooses leaders and
presidents and it seems to me that no
matter whom the nation
chooses first and
foremost it seems to me that everything
depends on the unity Within this or that
state and if the people are with us any
leader will be with us in this struggle
for
Freedom want to call on a Ukrainian
reporter yeah yeah yeah was pleasure
thanks so much
T yes please
interv channel for both leaders so today
during the G7 meeting the discussion
focused on developing Ukraine's air
defense system based on the most
advanced Western complexes and also on
enhacing long range capabilities so my
question is can you provide any details
on the initiative and about the
Readiness of our allies to take part in
it thank
you I'd be happy to respond to that we
have acquired commitment from five
countries so far for Patriot batteries
and other air defense systems as well as
we've let it be known to those countries
that are expecting from US Air Defense
systems in the future that they're going
to have to wait everything we have is
going to go to Ukraine until their needs
are met and then we'll make good on the
commitments we made to other countries I
think President Biden already answered
to your question really uh he knows uh
and uh all other partners they know that
urgently we need seven Pate systems he
has to if our cities not all of them
it's a Pity but urgently seven and we
discuss the possibility of having five
of them it's true but the partners work
on it it doesn't mean that tomorrow we
will have these five systems but we see
in the closest Future Good result for
Ukraine you'll have some relatively
quickly uh American reporter Josh wiro
Bloomberg
thank you Mr President I have a question
for Mr President zalinsky shortly on the
announcements but uh if you don't mind
I'd like to ask you about your
discussions on the situation in Gaza
here at the summit you were asked just a
short time ago about it after the uh
skydiving demonstration can you give us
your assessment of hamas's response and
do you believe that they are trying to
work towards a deal or is this response
working against a deal and what is your
message to allies including those here
at the G7 about what more if anything
the US can do to drive towards uh a
peace agreement thank you I wish you
guys would a little play by the by the
rules a little bit I'm here to talk
about a critical situation in Ukraine
you ask me another subject I I'll be
happy to answer it in detail later but
the bottom line is that we've made an
agreement I've laid out an approach that
has been endorsed by the UN Security
Council by the G7 by the Israelis and
the the biggest hangup so far is Hamas
refusing to sign on even though they
have submitted something similar whether
it not it comes to fruition remains to
be seen we're going to continue to push
I don't have a final answer for
you uh and to President Biden's point a
question about today's uh uh discussions
uh president zilinski the $50 billion
today you've had the supplemental of
course
from the US con Congress recently can
you give us an assessment of the
situation on the battlefield right now
and what has been given now how long
will this get you uh in terms of either
stopping the Russian advance or making
Headway uh on this and how long will it
last you if indeed Future Leaders or
current leaders are unable to reach
consensus on further Aid packages and
President Biden I'd welcome your
assessment of the situation C ly on the
battlefield what difference the
supplemental has made as well sir thank
you thank you for your question indeed
we we were expecting the fundamental
package of the support within the
Congress of the United States of America
and truly it it was a long pause for our
Warriors first and foremost but it is
important that we grateful that in the
very end we have this supplement and
this will for sure strengthen our
Warriors yes
this this has given the opportunity to
the enemy with within this PA to try to
occupy Hari but that attempt was stopped
by our Warriors they were
repelled the enemy was repelled and we
despite everything disrupted all their
plans and it seems to me that that is
the most important thing
uh what this uh supplement that will
arrive gives us it enables us to fully
equip the reserves those guys those
brigades that are ready so so that they
provide for for the opportunity to
rotate our units on the battlefield so
that they can have some rest so that the
brigades can regenerate so that other
brigades enter the battlefield instead
of them with equipment this is what the
supplement gives them so the raise of
morale but also the raise of strength of
our brigades and it seems to me that
this is the most important for how long
this will this will be enough look we
without package have been holding the
lines for eight months and the Russians
had no successes and therefore the the
question on on for for how
long it will be enough no I think the
question has to be for how long the
unity will last
the unity in the United States together
with the European leaders how these or
those elections will influence this
Unity it seems to me that we should look
on this exactly this way to preserve
Unity to preserve the Integrity of the
world Integrity of the democratic world
because if Ukraine does not
withand the Democracy of many countries
will not be able to withstand and I'm
sure of that by the way the idea that we
had to wait till we pass the legislation
overall even held up by a small majority
of our Republican colleagues was just
terrible and uh there's a lot more money
coming Beyond what's already come in the
other Tres that are available now that
we've passed the legislation so they'll
have what they need and get it there as
quickly as we possibly can thank you so
much Mr President Telegraph buas
Telegraph please
good evening my name is zavar of
telegraph UA thank you for this
opportunity I have a long way from GIF
and have enough time to prepare such
long question uh firstly to Joe Biden Mr
President the additional Ukraine
supplemental Appropriations act that you
signed mandated the submission of
strategy War uh for the UK for the war
in Ukraine within 45 days after it
enactment this deadline passed on June
8th and uh now yet uh the International
Community has not seen this strategy has
it been developed and if the strategy is
classified what step does your
Administration plan to take to hust
Ukraine victory in the world it's my
first question the second will be to the
Pres what was the last part of your
question uh has it been developed this
strategy and uh what steps does your
Administration plan to take to Victory
Ukraine in the world the steps we're
going to take to make sure that has the
Ukraine has Victory and that Russia does
not Prevail is continued support what we
just signed we signed that and
significant number of nations have
signed it we have convinced the G7
convinced we've got support of the G7
and quite frankly 48 other countries we
sat with the prime minister of of Japan
South Korea we have 50 Nations who
signed up beyond the NATO and the G7 and
so we're going to stay as long as it
takes with regard to the plan that is a
that is a plan and process now we're
discussing with our Ukrainian friends
exactly what it would be we have a lot
of movement toward that we know the
outlines of it we have not done the
detail of it all but we know what
Ukraine is capable of doing when given
the material to defend themselves and
that's exactly what they're doing now
my second question second question is to
president Z it will be in Ukraine and
recently you have made couple of of
sharp statements regarding China and
there are Rumors in press regarding the
possible supplies of Russia's weapons to
China apart from that China is is
actively promoting its own peace plan
among certain countries what are the
motives of Beijing now and would it be
possible to change the vision of China
regarding our war and which role the US
can play in this and the final question
is is is is China um a a partner of um
of Russia in these uh crimes that it
commits that your trip was
long uh so
the so first of all I had phone
conversation with a leader of China by
phone he said that he will not sell any
weapon to
Russia that is the first we'll see with
you
we'll see but he said to me if he is
respectable person he will not because
he gave me the
word the second our you know that you
know very good with details our peace
formula it's very open for everybody
basing on Charter yes you and and you
know
that it's it bases on next principles
territorial
Integrity sovereign
nuclear security food
security if
China has alternative view on it it can
prepare alternative peace formula if we
share common views on it like with
globally with all the world I think so
so if they share the same way to piece
we will find dialogue
by the way China is not supplying
weapons but the ability to produce those
weapons and the technology available to
do it so it is in fact helping
Russia thank you all so very much
appreciate this concludes our press
conference thank you everybody
[Music]
all right it's just past 19 GMT and I'm
joined Now by our diplomatic editor who
has been watching those scenes in
southern Italy as we witnessed President
Joe Biden and President Vladimir
zalinski sign a landmark deal on us U us
Ukraine Security deal James we were
watching that press conference there
president vmir zalinsky referring to
this as one of the most significant
deals in Ukrainian history
yes he said it was a truly historic day
he said it was the most important
strongest deal that the US had done with
Ukraine since Ukraine's independence of
course that was at the collapse of the
Soviet Union in
1991 uh and President Biden making it
clear this is part of a package of
different measures that the US and the
G7 are doing in conjunction with things
that are going on with nato in
conjunction with things that have been
happening in recent weeks and the whole
idea is to turn the tide of the war in
Ukraine because when G7 leaders met a
year ago in hoshima I think they're a
lot more hopeful about where things
would be now than where they actually
are now because Ukraine has not made any
of those gains that they are hoping for
in fact Ukraine has seemed a little to
be on the back foot so let me run
through what has been agreed first
there's this Security deal bilateral
Security deal between the US uh and uh
Ukraine which lasts for 10 years so it
shows I think an ongoing commitment but
the way the US system works uh I think
the plan is to make the momentum such
that this is Trump proof in case there
was a return of President Trump in
November but we've just look at
something like the Iran nuclear deal in
in US foreign policy um things can be
overturned by the incoming president and
in fact in that case president Trump did
exactly that uh we also have what's been
agreed by the G7 which is new money for
Ukraine for Ukraine's reconstruction
this is a $50 billion loan for Ukraine
and what they're going to do there is
use the Russian assets that were frozen
at the beginning of the war 280 um I
think billion is what President Biden
said we've been saying early in the day
um 300 billion but either way they're
going to use as collateral for that loan
uh the interest that has been earned on
that Frozen money and then the last part
that President Biden talked about was uh
the uh the sanctions uh that have uh
been put on Ukraine on Russia and he
said that the sanctions are being
strengthened but of course you look at
the picture in terms of the Russian
economy and certainly it's not been
devastated the way that the Allies uh
the US allies had hoped at the start of
this War President zelinsky also talking
about new uh Patriot uh and other air
defense systems for Ukraine President
Biden saying that five countries
committed or nearly committed president
zinski saying that he needed seven and I
think the last important thing on
Ukraine um that is is an important
change um from both uh the US and its
NATO allies is the fact in recent weeks
they allowing Ukraine to use uh the
weapons they're supplying them with to
go into Russian territory to attack
Russian uh targets but President Biden
was pretty clear on that it was allowed
just across the border but not deep into
Russia and he said the policy would not
change on that but certainly what the um
but the the G7 countries and the other
NATO allies are hoping is there's going
to be some diplomatic momentum now and
only now in less than a month we've also
got the very big NATO Summit that takes
place in Washington DC and James
President Biden in his remarks on the
sidelines of that uh G7 Summit in Italy
made a comment that this is a reminder
to President Putin that the US is not
backing down was was there any is there
any indication um as to how that has
been received in Italy in terms of uh
from the other G7
leaders yeah we've had comments from the
other uh G7 leaders uh Olaf Schultz put
out a statement earlier on where he said
that President Putin keeps hoping that
we're going to give up supporting uh
Ukraine we'll stop supporting uh Ukraine
uh if he keeps up the pressure he said
that the new $50 billion deal the the
loan for Ukraine he said uh said that he
he's failed uh in in in that uh plan
today there was a reporter at that press
conference who asked US President Joe
Biden about the situation in Gaza this
reporter asked whether he sees that
Hamas is walking working toward or
indeed working against the ceasefire
deal can you talk us through how
President Biden responded to that
question yeah I mean this was very much
a Ukraine branded event it was there
were signs around the um press
conference venue the outdoor venue uh
heralding this new Security deal between
the US and Ukraine There Were Us Flags
there were Ukrainian flags and it was
clear that President Biden did not want
questions about Gaza on this occasion
and he made that clear to the reporter
all right that's our diplomatic editor
there James Bas oh uh actually we are
going to uh give our audience a chance
to listen to that sound bite from the US
President Joe Biden I believe we have
that ready at the
moment I wish you guys would a little
play by the by the rules a little bit
I'm here to talk about a critical
situation in Ukraine you're asking me
another subject I'll be happy to answer
it in detail later but the bottom line
is that we've made an agree I've laid
out an approach that has been endorsed
by the UN Security Council by the G7 by
the Israelis and the the biggest hangup
so far is Hamas refusing to sign on even
though they have submitted something
similar whether hat out that comes with
fruition remains to be seen we're going
to continue to push I don't have a final
answer for you
uh clearly unhappy President Biden
having to talk about Gaza but clearly
it's also been one of the very big
issues here we didn't learn anything new
from President Biden worth telling you
that diplomats behind the scenes are
working on the final wording of the
communic the G7 communic while the
leaders have their discussions around
the table and do their photographs of
the press what's known as the family
photo where they all stand there uh
behind the scenes uh the top diplomats
work and finalize the wording of that
communic and we think the wording now on
Israel Palestine has been basically
finalized we hear that they're very
concerned about the situation on the
Lebanon Northern Israel border of course
there are some reports that perhaps
Israel when it's finished in Rafa may
turn more of its attention to that uh
northern border they say they have an
unwavering commitment to a two-state
solution but I was at the last G7 uh
meeting in hoshima a year ago and I have
to say there wasn't much mention about
um two-state solution at that time and
the us at that time was basically going
round the Palestinians uh trying to get
deals with other Arab countries with
Israel uh and they also said and I think
this is perhaps the most interesting
thing that is likely to be in the final
communic they call for Israel to refrain
from a full scale offensive in Rafa um
that raises some questions for me
because if you watch our Channel Al
jazer and you watch our reporting from
our colleagues in Gaza and you see the
really horrendous pictures that have
come from Rafa in recent weeks if that's
not a fulls scale offensive what is
right that's our diplomatic editor there
James Bay reporting from Italy James
thank you